Skid Row a hellscape in downtown Los
Angeles with deadly police shooting in
La Skid Row where more than 5,000
homeless people crowd the streets tents
line the sidewalks addiction and mental
illness run wild and crime is at an
all-time high in Skid Row survival is
the only goal I've been coming to La my
entire life I've never seen streets that
look like this today I want to document
the shocking reality in Skid Row but
also shine a light on these people's
dignity because homelessness is not
exactly what you think it
[Music]
is Skid Row is a 50 block area in
downtown Los Angeles holding one of the
largest populations of homeless people
in the United States with over 5,000
residents living in encampments many of
them are addicted to drugs but the lack
of Mental Health Services leaves many
without the support they need putting
them in a cycle of adversity that is
hard to break I heard about one
organization that provides food Medical
Care and shelter to vulnerable people in
skid row it's called called Midnight
Mission and I'm about to meet up with
Dante and Heidi two volunteers who were
drawn to work here because they both
know firsthand what it is like to be
without a home really what our goal is
to go out of business right if we can
just get everybody housed and where they
need to be we could shut the doors that
would be the best thing together Dante
and Heidi are going to show me around
the most dangerous streets in America so
most people when they hear the word skid
R they immediately think like danger
what's your response to that well
everywhere's dangerous sure I agree with
that so of course it's dangerous yeah
but uh not as dangerous as it's as it's
put out to be the violence is rising
because we're getting so many other
people from different places and they're
bringing different energy attacks you
know like uh people being hit with poles
or stabbings and things like this it's
just starting to rise up and then the
summertime too usually around the summer
you know people get hotter frustrated
and and things happen hey you all right
bro oh he breathing we'll do well inness
checks and they'll be laying like that
dying you've seen just dead people of
course
often of course often my second year
working here every other week I came to
work someone was OD in a tent somewhere
or when we go around to do Wellness
checks in the morning wake people up we
would have two or three people died and
then when it got cold we had a couple
people die uh from freezing freezing
yeah more people die of hypothermia on
the streets of Los Angeles than in New
York cuz New York has the you know the
right to shelter so they'll have shelter
but here people don't think about it so
each 10 is a home for one person or or
sometimes two people or or a person in
their dog can see tense and tense and
tense here on the sidewalks homes for
the people guess it's a bit more shelter
than just a tent yeah if it rains or
something well for the rain they're real
resourceful though you see the tarps
yeah that for the rain so crazy walking
around these streets just lot of
simulation everywhere people coming up
to you I'm literally shocked right now I
don't know what to think you want to
talk to us for a second about your
experiences being down here on uh ski
road yeah what's your name Jan number
one skid R dancer number one skid rad
dancer she really is she is the best
dancer Number One You're Number Two
really what is it like to live in SK uh
it's cool we we get everything down here
we get a blessing every day so have you
always been a dancer or is it something
that you just learned while you I I grew
up dancing like Michael Jackson I was at
home watching them and I'll be at home
practicing with them you know they
getting down I'm getting down with hey
what's the best and the worst thing
about living here the best thing I just
love downtown cuz I am number one and
what's the worst thing about living here
when they get the um fighting and stuff
you know somebody hating on somebody you
know for what I don't know I seen
another man take his light right there
at that building right there he jumped I
was right there by the midnight he was
way at the top how he got up there in
that building look how it's blocked off
you know that that was strange to me for
real think it's time we should see some
of your dance
moves okay
okay from the middle like a rocket give
me a b I'm a I'm a rocket feeling like
Rocky in my pockets maning they try
to Everyday
[Music]
occurrence they get a call the fire
department here in skidrow a call every
7 Seconds true I mean we've heard a
bunch of ambulance so far but damn
that's crazy every seven seconds you see
here this is the police station yeah I
was going to ask about make them this is
the police station this is the police
station there was a guy that was shot in
the head right here like right here in
front of the police station right in
front of the police station and they
don't do anything and they didn't catch
the guy they didn't just shot it started
to even be harder to get the police to
come out they asked so many questions
before even yeah well hey we got a guy
that was a SED hey is he bleeding how
old is he is he can he talk can he stand
can he's like hey just come out and come
see about it yeah how are you my best
friend God bless you God bless you too
good to see God bless you God bless you
too all right hi what's going on over
here probably a testing site diabetes
testing they got some covid tests there
it's open for anyone so this is yeah la
Christian Health Center come they just
roll up on a corner and everybody can
come out and for food I'm guessing
people make food they dumpster dive
what's what's the food situation like
the missions make it where they don't
have to dumpster dive but a lot of them
still do I guess when you get used to
something or custom something that's
just what they'll do like this right
legi here it's so crazy that in right
there you just see these huge Banks like
right here right here from from SK R
yeah such a contrast did you know that
LA county has the largest population of
poverty homelessness and also the
largest population of billionaires
really mhm not much in between not much
they're cutting out middle class they're
cutting middle class is yeah it's done
it's yeah skidrow is an extreme example
of America's shrinking middle class over
the past few decades wages have
stagnated while the cost of living has
soared the gap between rich and poor
widens pushing many into Financial
turmoil and even homelessness in fact
the share of adults who live in middle
class households fell from 61 to 50% in
the last 50 years Skyhigh housing prices
crippling healthcare costs and mounting
student debt push more people into
poverty making places like Skid Row
symbols of a larger economic struggle oh
you can just set up a tent anywhere
there's no Ru like they're not supposed
to set the tents up until like I think
about 6:00 but nobody's stopping them
they don't have enough manpower I don't
believe to enforce and it would probably
start a ride is it growing or shrinking
growing growing growing if you ask any
homeless person in La if they don't live
here like what's the reputation of good
road dangerous drugs the lowest of the
low what percentage of of people out
here are are on drugs every day a lot of
it stems from another problem you know
most of the time mental health Lost to
house or family put you out and then
being here you're going to try something
and then sure I think that's where the
stuck process comes a lot of people come
down here not intending on staying here
you know yeah what happens here at
nighttime what's the vibe like on the
streets it's a different vibe nighttime
everybody's up that's when a lot of
people are using or seeking to use or
going to get money to use you know so
sure it's vital that more people join
this conversation and spread awareness
about the same and that's where nid AI
comes in nid AI is the world's most
popular AI Video Creator with over 10
million users across 150 countries it's
my favorite AI Video Creator because it
put me in the driver's seat and it works
as my personal sidekick to help with
Annoying tasks like scripting editing
and finding all the footage that brings
my ideas to life all you have to do is
start with a simple text prompt and it
creates the first rough draft for you
hey everyone ever wondered how cultures
in Asia and Europe stack up against each
other from there you can get creative
and fine-tune your video using simple
text prompts in more ways than you'd
imagine want to change your
language or find better footage for a
scene it's done in the click of a button
one of the coolest features is that you
can clone your own voice and generate
videos in many different languages nid
AI can literally save you hundreds of
dollars per month because it literally
does a jobs of over 10 different tools
all packed in one and it costs only $20
a month to start listen I know a lot of
people out there see AI as a threat
feeling that humans are being replaced
by AI but I see tools like nid AI as a
way to level up your skills by taking
advantage of it it allows you to bring
projects to life that would normally
seem Out Of Reach all right guys let's
get back to the streets of LA good
morning how you
do all right how you fellas doing how
you guys doing good
[Music]
morning she said they took my tent I
think that's what she said yeah the
police took her tent I don't know oh
yeah see this is what they do they come
every other Wednesday yeah and they'll
clean up the streets whose day uh the
city the police will come out with the
city and they'll just they'll just
remove people's tents they just remove
the T that's not cool that's their home
yeah you'll hear of a sweep this is a
sweep cuz literally they're sweeping and
it sucks cuz there a double-edged sword
of course you want businesses clean but
then you want to let people that already
don't have homes have home somewhere to
sleep warm so human life is human life
you know so sweeps on Skid Row are
city-led cleanups where officials clear
out homeless camps residents must pack
up and move immediately often losing
their belongings though meant to improve
safety sweeps are controversial critics
say they just shift the problem around
without fixing it instead of helping
these sweeps often make life harder for
the homeless pushing them further into
despair how you doing Texas hi what's up
Pekka how are
you they're coming on this side
after can we help her we could Let's
help her let's help her Tanaya can we
help you can we help you now we going to
help you move the tent it's okay you
sure sure all right
okay all right well nice seeing you you
got to move your stuff too you got a
minute you got a second you want to talk
to me for a second what's going on I'm
tired you're tired how would you
describe it out here to someone who has
no idea what skid ow
is tough question man the boss make it
real tough for y'all in order to keep a
job you got to get your knees dirty and
chiss what's the best and the worst part
about living here the best part about it
you ain't got a chiss you do or nothing
behind the worst part about it is you
like me I'm 7 years old I've been out
here since 2004 back and forth of prison
prison is much better than this prison
is much better than
this you get respect in
prison but nobody gives you respect
here you get robbed I'm homeless I don't
have any the clothes I got today I got
yes he this was clean have you made any
friends or people that you call friends
or are they just kind of acquaintances
friends are expensive thanks for
chatting with me I appreciate it come
back to the mission you know you need
anything I do right now all right well
come on back up there you know the
clothes are already out right now I
wanted to say m your mother and father
but they could be off the chain too
appreciate it man it seems to be 80 to
90% male on these streets yeah it's more
male are females do they hang out with
other females or do they kind of mix in
they kind of mix in some with the women
down here it's a that's a large
spectacle some of them are with guys
that they don't particularly even like
but it's for protection got it you know
yeah cuz down here as just a woman alone
yeah not a good scene especially after
hours a lot of things going in these
tents that the cops are just passing by
you would never know what's going on you
got a lot of predators down here too so
you get young women that come down here
and hook up with a guy that you know
promised him something right clothes or
something and a down rad SP spiral so
yeah so when you see people like this
you try to move them or you just let
them sleep no I let them sleep yeah yeah
so she was having a seizure and someone
decided to jump on top of her and rape
her and while that was happening the
cops came and while the cops came to try
to help her somebody had a knife and
tried to knife the cops yeah walk behind
on on this street corner right right
here oh my God and she's still here yeah
and she's still here since you're
talking about women here on the street
that's what happened yeah just seen his
targets how you doing
man good morning how are you you look
really nice pretty yeah thank you you're
welcome would you be interested in
sharing your story due to a circumstance
of me creating incredible incredibly
like valuable uh intellectual property
as a career they've been um attempting
to murder me over I could use any safety
you guys could offer have have you ever
heard of the Midnight Mission yeah I
don't want to do any of that stuff
because the guy was my pay for my
federal disability shut it off illegally
and was monopolizing the apartment so
they basically been trying to pwn me off
as a dumb drug
addict so uh nice to see you it's nice
to see you we're going to stay living
yes yes so this Parker is cool I was
going to Home Depot these things are
awesome that is pretty cool ones they
have
like I do my best to have a good time no
matter what going on you know yep for
sure so the Midnight Mission is a
shelter uh couple blocks it's actually
on six in San Pedro but we give out
meals three meals a day and we have
showers and restrooms and we do have uh
women's we have women's shelter it
doesn't cost anything everything that we
do is completely free well they've tried
to hurt me more than once I get a little
nervous about that I understand that's
why like you know what I I they made a
lot of money and they exploited me and
made me look MH like something I'm not
well if you decide you want to we got
guys like Dante and Michael over there
they're our security so we have security
24/7 okay so you would be safe well do
they do that there do they electrocute
people no it is heartbreaking that
some residents refuse help due to past
mistreatment it is true that mental
health issues on Skid Row are a crisis
within a crisis over one-third of
residents suffer from severe illnesses
like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder
the area is a mental health desert with
Services stretched too thin to meet
overwhelming demand untreated conditions
worsen in the chaotic environment
without stable housing regular treatment
is nearly impossible Outreach programs
and Clinics struggle to cope leading to
public breakdowns self harm and violent
outbursts the situation shows a
desperate need for Comprehensive Mental
Health Care and housing Solutions
highlighting severe societal neglect I
got some good people here they wanted to
see if you wanted to just share like two
minutes of what it's been like to be on
skid rad be down here oh yeah absolutely
I guess Big Russ is your name that's
what they call you yeah Russell Big Russ
what's the best and the worst part about
living in skid R uh the best part is
there okay so Freedom no expectations no
responsibilities some of us don't handle
responsibility very well which is me and
then the worst thing is any second you
know you can lose your life you know
over something as simple as somebody
wanting your shoes how do you deal with
those situations that are life and death
the best thing you can possibly do is
turn around and walk away any form of
confrontation at all can lead to you
losing your life have you found many
friends here I know this sounds bad but
different streets are owned by different
like clicks or different um they like to
call themselves a family which in a
sense they are you know they protect
each other like before I uh went into
where I'm staying now I lived on Wall
Street you did next street over which is
one of the worst streets like Crocker if
you're not family they let you know
immediately that you're there only as a
customer interesting before you were
living on wall and here what were you
doing uh I used to be a coder do you
still have a passion for that or do you
think you could still code someday oh
yeah I could still code but the thing is
you know where I have a problem with you
know responsibility either people
depending on me or me depending on them
it forms a lot a lot of anxiety and
that's why living on the street or
living in a shelter or whatever is a
little more easier for me where do you
see yourself in 5 years from now I
should have my own apartment you know
which is coming within 60 to 90 days and
and it'll be a Section 8 in housing good
for you it's not bad 5 years from now I
should have a non-demanding job one that
doesn't require like a quota or a Time
based you know I hope you can find a job
like that so do I it was nice meeting
you guys thank you I one more question
if you could say one message to
everybody in the world what would you
tell them hope is the single most
powerful force in the universe you know
love comes and goes but hope every
single thing in the world has hope I
hope I get a new job I hope I get a
better pay I hope I get a daughter you
know hope is the single most driving
force in the universe never give up hope
very powerful made me
cry oh my gosh I take a hug thank I love
hugs I'm going give you a hug too if you
s aware Russ oh my God apprciate it man
appreciate you R I'll see you guys have
a good day
[Music]
again can I pet your dog
oh she's trying to bite me what is this
area these are like the older cats they
don't keep up a lot of trouble they all
hang together usually just you see how
mellow they are yeah this is like the
chillest Zone like chill yeah yeah
always like bunch of world flags and
playing some cool they're using mellow
it's a population of everybody that
comes right here he wants to know he
said he talked to you before how you
doing have we met I I don't believe so
but can we meet hi William I'm Heidi so
you've seen a transformation here is it
more safe or more dangerous now than
before more dangerous more dangerous did
you ever almost lose your life I've been
shot 100 back home where did you get
shot in my leg in your leg so how long
have you been living in this tent right
here in this spot about 2 years I'm
trying to get housing yeah yeah that's
what I've been hearing from a lot of
people it's hard to get housing you
think you'll get it soon I hope so
what's your take on the current
situation of skid row it's not good they
get all this money uh do things for us
but we don't we don't see none of
it it's going in their pockets that's
all my wife and I was down here and um
both came down here our wheelchairs
broke down cuz I used a Mot I wheelchair
we went to the to the missions and um
they wouldn't they wouldn't give us no
no no Betty you know nowhere to sleep
because of our whech said they didn't
have no elevator but come to find out
they did have an elevator so why would
why would they not give it to you I
don't know where's your wife now um she
was in a nursing home I don't know where
she is now have you seen her lately
no do you mind if I look inside your
tent oh wow it's messy right now because
I'm I'm I'm
unpacking I had to pack up cuz we have
to leave you got a lot of stuff in here
it looks like a lot of stuff if you
could say one message to everybody in
the world what would you tell them take
pray up Jesus is on his way back
appreciate your time thank you so much
here's his dog right here acrossing the
cage holy that's a that's a mean
boy right there nobody Bes own no I'm
scared of that dog 30 years yeah 30
years I I'm 32 so I mean yeah can't even
imagine the last thing you said was I'm
not crazy yet how how do you do
that where you going that picture that
you just I'm not recording anything like
I said suing everybody that was
interesting going to be down at this new
place what's going on kind of walking
through a busy street here I know right
a lot of action around here can you
share more about your own personal story
like you're from Compton what what was
it like growing up there well for me it
was it was like I told you it's
dangerous everywhere sure so of course
there was danger gang violence but it
was actually a a beautiful place to grow
up I had my uncle uh Stan used to work
here but before he worked here when I
was younger uh he dealt with drugs and
we used to bring food here to the
Midnight Mission uh to him you know he
called me one day I just left my other
job and I was actually looking for work
and he asked me did I want to work here
at first my first thing I was like no
I'm not not going a sko but then
actually when I came down here this is
right where I needed to be I'm a
people's person yeah you are I like to
talk to people and I like to help so you
just felt connection here yeah right off
back
Heidi what's your story what's your
connection to Skid ow 7even years ago I
came out just to on vacation in
California and we came down to tour the
Midnight Mission and I fell in love with
the place I lived in Pennsylvania and so
it took me 2 years but then we sold
everything we owned and moved out here
so that I could possibly work for the
Midnight Mission you have such a kind
heart to do that I mean it's it's really
incredible and you've been here for so
long but clearly you found a lot of joy
and happiness and connection out here I
love the people I love their stories I
feel like it's my mission to let them
know that they matter that their lives
matter and if I can be a voice to let
other people know that homelessness
isn't what you think it is and that
these are human beings like somebody's
mom or brother or sister and think once
skro Gets In Your Heart like you can't
get it out like it's just it's there
that's it I'm I can feel that from both
of you we're in the middle of downtown
LA so there's obviously things adjacent
to skin row that other people would
visit is there friction so experience
for people coming down here just to like
go Mama tacos or something like that I
don't think they have that much trouble
how long has goodro been around well the
Midnight Mission has been around for 110
years and we are the longest
withstanding human services provider
like we've never skidrow was here when
the Midnight Mission started skid was
here so it's over 100 years old what has
changed about skidrow more women more
women there used to be no tents where
were they sleep before uh it really
wasn't sleeping people were either down
here selling drugs or doing them but
there were no like tens and laying this
is just an area where you would come do
it and then they would dispersed it when
I I remember when I was younger coming
down here it weren't any tense like
people just laid out on the streets how
we're seeing now n it wasn't tense I
will say we we've walked a lot of the
streets already and I don't really feel
like I'm in danger like I you know I'm
seeing things of course but I'm not
being threatened I'm not being attacked
this is what I'm saying and people like
everyone I know that would say I'm not
going there I'm not going there yeah you
have to be here to understand if people
do work what are their typical jobs here
in Skid Row well depending on a lot of
them go into cleaning a place called
Chris lives here where they hire a lot
and most of the homeless they'll they do
get jobs they'll go there and that's
another uh Mis like people think ah
these people down here they don't want
to work or they don't have a job and
it's not true a lot of people work and
that's why like we have a mail center so
they can have an address in order for
you know a job application it's not just
about getting a job see they're cleaning
the streets behind me that's their job
it's nice to see people working I like
that are people like selling stuff too
like on the street well they try to make
their money that way some of them have
uh you know chips or whatever they can
get their hands on some of them come go
to the missions and get like tennis
shoes and stuff like that right and then
they'll come out here and try to sell it
to make some extra money or whatever
it's cool I like to see all the flags
here yeah this here is the uh Joshua
house you know a lot of them don't have
insurance to get their teeth pulled STDs
whatever right everybody doesn't have
insurance to Joshua house will take
before the pandemic we would charge
phones but I believe they can go to the
bin or the refresh Center got it and
they can charge their phone wash their
clothes and things like that what's that
are you working no I work at the
Midnight Mission
okay hi how you doing that guy asked me
if I was with Section 8 so they want
Section 8 vouchers cuz if you have a
voucher then when housing comes
available you can get housing the
problem is people have vouchers and
they've been waiting for a year like
people will be in our crisis in Bridge
Center with a voucher they are approved
for housing but there is no housing a
lot of people were housed last year but
the rate of people that are becoming
homeless is greater than the rate that
they can house can't catch up yeah
meeting people on Skid Row is eye
openening and heart-wrenching hearing
their stories of struggle and survival
hits me hard I feel a mix of sadness and
determination knowing how much must be
done to help these people as I continue
to walk around I notice a blind man
approaching tapping his walking stick he
is kind enough to answer a few questions
what made you want to come to Skid Row I
don't have nobody to help me and I can't
hear CU there was help in SK do you like
the community here I don't like how the
the police manage over here and how the
city manage over here because the city
helps but doesn't manage what's the drug
problem like on
skid many everyone's taking drugs drugs
they there's alcohol there uh marijuana
it's uh it's a crystal cocaine it's
heroine as a blind man I imagine it's
more difficult to be here because
there's more danger yeah you see like
the city make a stupid thing to build
that that kind of stuff over there in
the street we don't need a kind of ched
around here I have better imagination
than the city I fail over there because
there stupid things over there what do
you want the government to do to fix the
streets the money they spend in that
sidewalks over there they they can fix
the the sidewalks we need a kind of
token in the lights like in Santa Monica
in different cities they got all that
kind of stuff hey thanks than a lot for
sharing your story man I wish you the
best of luck thanks a lot man
appreciate good
morning how are you do you like living
here you like the
people drugs what kind of drugs smoking
smoking weed
meth
meth what's your job you working
sure right nice to meet you
byebye yeah of course so here there's a
bunch of clothes that they're giving out
people lining up and taking whatever you
want and this is all vegan food uh Chef
he worked at the Midnight Mission and he
his his dream is to bring bigan
nutritious food to the people of skid
and so that's what he does like that's
his do you think they know it's
nutritious maybe maybe not if people
watching this video want to help the
community here what can to do I would
say whatever it is if you wanted to
bring clothes shoes or even just come
down here and motivate people talking
this works too you wouldn't believe how
many people here it's like talking to
people how we're going around just
talking bro but for the most part I
would say this type of stuff coming down
interacting giving them something that
they're actually going to use the things
that most people that we take for
granted socks and stuff take yeah yeah
down here shoes like the guy Russell
told you you can die for a pair of shoes
down here that's how how much is needed
so you wouldn't believe how many people
that drive past people like oh hey
what's up what's up King how you doing
dirty homeless people and know these are
people with stories like talking to
that's my mission for coming here
exactly like they are people they have
hopes and dreams and you know they want
the same thing we want exactly
exactly means a lot I appreciate you
even doing of course man thanks for for
showing showing me around yeah I mean
coming by myself I don't know it'd be a
little intimidating to walk alone
exactly just you know the streets and
the culture yeah spending a day in Skid
Row talking to Residents and witnessing
the dire condition firstand I'm left
with a profound sense of urgency I want
to use my platform to show you what it's
like because we can no longer turn a
blind eye to this crisis this experience
has shown me the Deep flaws in our
system it's not just about providing
shelter it's about addressing mental
health addiction and the systemic issues
that perpetuate homelessness we need to
implement policies that treat the
homeless with dignity and respect
Community involvement is crucial
volunteer donate advocate for Change and
support organizations like Midnight
Mission who work around the clock to
make a difference skid WR is a reminder
of our Collective responsibility it's
time to turn empathy into action and
work towards a future where everyone has
a safe place to call home let's not just
hope for change let's make it happen
thank you for watching
[Music]